docs: update consensus-node page (#1662)
celestiaorg/docs: nodes/consensus-node.md

---
description: Learn how to set up a Celestia consensus node.
outline: deep
---

# Consensus node

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
<script setup>
import constants from '/.vitepress/constants/constants.js'
</script>

This guide covers how to set up a consensus node on Celestia.

> Cconsensus nodes allow you to sync the entire blockchain history in the Celestia

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consensus nodes allow you to sync the entire blockchain history in the Celestia
```

min-retain-blocks = 0 # this is the default setting
```

## Sync types

> | Mode              | Block sync  | State sync      | Quick sync |
> |-------------------|-------------|-----------------|------------|
> | Time              | ~3 weeks    | TBD             | TBD        |
> | Trust assumptions | Most secure | Trusts snapshot | TBD        |

Reviewer: I'm collecting this data now. Should we hold off on merging this table with TBDs? I can add it back after I have the data.

```suggestion
```

### Option 1: Block sync

> By default, a consensus node will sync using block sync; that is request, validate

Author: ```suggestion
By default, a consensus node will sync using block sync; which will request, validate
```

and execute every block up to the head of the blockchain. This is the most secure

> mechanism yet the slowest (taking up to days depending on the height of the blockchain).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mechanism yet the slowest (taking up to weeks depending on the height of the blockchain).
```
